Aberration 1
The item was created by aberrations in ancient times, possibly for the use of favored humanoid thralls. When seen from the corner of the eye, the item seems to be moving.

Human 25
The item was created during the heyday of a fallen human kingdom, or it is tied to a human of legend. It might hold writing in a forgotten tongue or symbols whose significance is lost to the ages.

Celestial 2
The weapon is half the normal weight and inscribed with feathered wings, suns, and other symbols of good. Fiends find the item 's presence repulsive.

Dragon 5
This item is made from scales and talons shed by a dragon. Perhaps it incorporates precious metals and gems from the dragon 's hoard. It grows slightly warm when within 120 feet of a dragon.

Drow 1
The item is half the normal weight. It is black and inscribed with spiders and we bs in honor of Lolth. It might function poorly, or disintegrate, if exposed to sunlight for 1 minute or more.

Dwarf 25
The item is durable and has Dwarven runes worked into its design. It might be associated with a clan that wo uld like to see it returned to their ancestral halls.

Elemental_Air 1
The item is half the normal weight and feels hollow. If it is made offabric, it is diaphanous.

Elemental_Earth 1
This item might be crafted from stone. Any cloth or leather elements are studded with finely polished rock.

Elemental_Fire 1
This item is warm to the touch, and any metal parts are crafted from black iron. Sigils of flames cover its surface. Shades of red and orange are the prominent colors.

Elemental_Water 1
Lustrous fish scales replace leather or cloth on this item, and metal portions are instead crafted from seashells and worked as hard as any metal.

Elf 25
The item is half the normal weight. It is adorned with symbols of nature: leaves, vines, stars, and the like

Fey 2
The item is exquisitely crafted from the finest materials and glows with a pale radiant moonlight, shedding dim light in a 5-foot radius. Any metal in the item is silver or mithral, rather than iron or steel.

Fiend 2
The item is made of black iron or horn inscribed with runes, and any cloth or leather components are crafted from the hide of fiends is warm to the touch and features leering faces or vile runes engraved on its surface. Celestials find the item 's presence repulsive.

Giant 1
The item is larger than normal and was crafted by giants for use by their smaller allies

Gnome 5
The item is crafted to appear ordinary it might look worn. It could also incorporate gears  and mechanical components, even if these are non-essential to the item's function.

Undead 2
The item incorporates imagery of death such as bones and skulls, and it might be era from parts of corpses. It feels cold to the touch
